# [FFmpegSR: A General Framework Toward Real-Time 4K Super-Resolution](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/10068833)



### Overview
With the explosive growth of online video content, the demand for high-quality video is ever-rising. To take advantage of recent advances in deep learning, in this paper, we propose and implement a framework, FFmpegSR, that applies deep learning-based super-resolution into an FFmpeg filter to implement real-time 4K video super-resolution. FFmpegSR applies super-resolution to the Y channel only, allowing reduced inference time while maintaining good inference quality. To further improve the inference speed, we also develop a patch-based solution that uses saliency detection to select regions of interest on the video frame. This allows us to achieve faster inference on key patches only instead of full video frames. We used videos from a public dataset for evaluation. Results show that FFmpegSR can achieve real-time super-resolution to 4K with high visual quality.


### Prerequisite
FFmpeg 4.4
CUDA, Libtorch, cudnn

### Installation
1. clone this repo
```sh
git clone https://github.com/symmru/FFmpegSR-ISM2022.git
```
2. Modify the path to libtorch in _CMakeList.txt_ and typt ``cmake .``with CMakeList
3. Then do ``make`` with Makefile (generated by cmakelist not original makefile in repo. It will generate ``libedsr.so``)
4. Replace the home directory in ``install.sh`` and run ``sudo install.sh`` 
5. Clone the ffmpeg rep
```sh
git clone -b release/4.4 https://github.com/FFmpeg/FFmpeg
```
6. Copy the ``vf_edsr.c`` to ``FFmpeg/libavfilter`` directory
7. Register the filter with FFmpeg. Add ``extern AVFilter ff_vf_edsr`` to ``libavfilter/allfilters.c``
8. Add ``OBJS-$(CONFIG_EDSR_FILTER) += vf_edsr.o`` to ``libavfilter/Makefile``
9. In the root FFmpeg directory, configure FFmpeg:
```sh
./configure --enable-gpl --enable-libx264 --extra-libs='-lstdc++ -ledsr'
```
Please also refer to https://trac.ffmpeg.org/wiki/CompilationGuide/Ubuntu for further conpilation guide
10. Directly add lib torch PATH into ``~./bashrc``:
```sh
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$LD_LIBRART_PATH:/home/lina/libtorch/lib
export PATH=$PATH:/home/lina/libtorch/bin
```
11. make FFmpeg with command ``make``
12. Test with command
```sh
./ffmpeg -benchmark -i path_to_input -filter_complex '
[0:v] format=pix_fmts=yuv420p, extractplanes=y+u+v [y][u][v];
[y] edsr=width=960:height=540:patch_width=160:patch_height=90:scale=2:file_path=path_to_patch_file:model_path=path_to_model [y_scaled];
[u] scale=iw*2:ih*2 [u_scaled];
[v] scale=iw*2:ih*2 [v_scaled];
[y_scaled][u_scaled][v_scaled] mergeplanes=0x001020:yuv420p [merged]
' -map [merged] -c:v libx264 -preset ultrafast -crf 0 path_to_output
```

In ``edsr`` filter, **width** and **height** stands for the resolution of input video frame. **patch_with** and **patch_height** stands for the resolution of patch frame. Our default setting is 6x6 grid per frame.  **file_path** stands for the patch information that need to apply super resolution. **model_path** is the traced model with ``torchscript``.


## Citations

If you find our code or paper helps, please consider citing:
```sh
@inproceedings{li2022ffmpegsr,
  title={FFmpegSR: A General Framework Toward Real-Time 4K Super-Resolution},
  author={Li, Na and Liu, Yao},
  booktitle={2022 IEEE International Symposium on Multimedia (ISM)},
  pages={293--296},
  year={2022},
  organization={IEEE}
}
```


